README.md, before:

**Work-In-Progress**: [Gerbers produced](https://github.com/mwrnd/PCIe_x8_Breakout/releases/tag/v0.1-alpha) and being tested.


# PCIe_x8_Breakout

PCIe x8 Signal Breakout to [U.FL/UMCC Connectors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hirose_U.FL).

[PCIEX1-SMA](https://github.com/teknoman117/PCIEX1-SMA/tree/f63db3cca1db83d9b58e01254d8104f65855b762) is a similar project that is PCIe x1 and uses SMA connectors.

![PCIe x8 Breakout PCB](img/PCIe_X8_Breakout_Front.jpg)


# PCB Layout

![PCIe x8 Breakout PCB Layout](img/PCIe_x8_Breakout_PCB_Layout.png)

All signals are length-matched to within 1mm both inter-pair and intra-pair.

Resistor footprint R1 connects `PRSNT1` to `PRSNT2_x8`. The R1 trace can be cut and `PRSNT1` can be connected to a different `PRSNT2` to reduce the [PCIe lane width](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PCI_Express#Lane).

![R1 Connects PRSNT1 to PRSNT2_x8](img/PCIe_X8_Breakout-Cut_PRSNT1-PRSNT2_x8_Connection.jpg)

Then wire jumpers can be used to connect `PRSNT1` to any of the `PRSNT2`.

![PRSNT1 and PRSNT2 Jumpers](img/PCIe_X8_Breakout_Back.jpg)


# Schematic

![PCIe x8 Breakout Schematic](img/PCIe_x8_Breakout_Schematic.png)


# PCB Layer Stackup

4-Layer PCB stackup taken from [JLCPCB](https://jlcpcb.com/capabilities/pcb-capabilities).

![PCB Layer Stackup](img/Layer_Stackup.png)

Differential Impedance parameters were calculated using the [DigiKey Online Calculator](https://www.digikey.com/en/resources/conversion-calculators/conversion-calculator-pcb-trace-impedance).

![PCB Differential Impedance Calculation](img/PCB_Impedance_0.30mm_0.18mm_on_0.21mm_7628.png)

Commit message:

Added In-System Usage Pictures

README.md, after:

**Work-In-Progress**: [Gerbers produced](https://github.com/mwrnd/PCIe_x8_Breakout/releases/tag/v0.1-alpha) and being tested.


# PCIe_x8_Breakout

PCIe x8 Signal Breakout to [U.FL/UMCC Connectors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hirose_U.FL).

[PCIEX1-SMA](https://github.com/teknoman117/PCIEX1-SMA/tree/f63db3cca1db83d9b58e01254d8104f65855b762) is a similar project that is PCIe x1 and uses SMA connectors.

![PCIe x8 Breakout PCB](img/PCIe_X8_Breakout_Front.jpg)



# Testing and Use Example

The board is currently being used along with a [SlimSAS8x_Breakout](https://github.com/mwrnd/SlimSAS8x_Breakout) board to test OpenCAPI-to-PCIe on the [Innova-2 SmartNIC](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/networking/ethernet/innova-2-flex/).

![PCIe x8 Breakout and OpenCAPI Breakout](img/PCIe_and_OpenCAPI_Breakout.jpg)

In-system:

![PCIe x8 Breakout and OpenCAPI Breakout In System](img/PCIe_and_OpenCAPI_Breakout_in_System.jpg)



# PCB Layout

![PCIe x8 Breakout PCB Layout](img/PCIe_x8_Breakout_PCB_Layout.png)

All signals are length-matched to within 1mm both inter-pair and intra-pair.

Resistor footprint R1 connects `PRSNT1` to `PRSNT2_x8`. The R1 trace can be cut and `PRSNT1` can be connected to a different `PRSNT2` to reduce the [PCIe lane width](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PCI_Express#Lane).

![R1 Connects PRSNT1 to PRSNT2_x8](img/PCIe_X8_Breakout-Cut_PRSNT1-PRSNT2_x8_Connection.jpg)

Then wire jumpers can be used to connect `PRSNT1` to any of the `PRSNT2`.

![PRSNT1 and PRSNT2 Jumpers](img/PCIe_X8_Breakout_Back.jpg)



# Schematic

![PCIe x8 Breakout Schematic](img/PCIe_x8_Breakout_Schematic.png)



# PCB Layer Stackup

4-Layer PCB stackup taken from [JLCPCB](https://jlcpcb.com/capabilities/pcb-capabilities).

![PCB Layer Stackup](img/Layer_Stackup.png)

Differential Impedance parameters were calculated using the [DigiKey Online Calculator](https://www.digikey.com/en/resources/conversion-calculators/conversion-calculator-pcb-trace-impedance).

![PCB Differential Impedance Calculation](img/PCB_Impedance_0.30mm_0.18mm_on_0.21mm_7628.png)
